AWS Data Engineering Services

In this series you will learn about all AWS services related to Data Engineering.

AWS Glue : 
1. Serverless solution for discovering , prepping & comibining data.
2. The service that consists of ETL jobs, Data Catalog, Glue Studio, Data Quality and Data Brew.
3. Allow you to gather your data, process it with an ETL, catalog it and send it to consumption services.
4. Glue is able to interact with AWS , third party services with low effort.

what you can accomplish with AWS Glue:
1. Serverless way to use ETL (Extract , Transform & Load) data integration
2. Allows for multiple data sources including S3, Dynamo DB & RDS
3. Able to build ETL jobs utilizing different methods including python shell, Glue streaming and cloud Studio.
4. There are four types of Data Processing Units (DPU)
    a. G.1X (for memory-intense workloads)
    b. G.2X (for Workload with ML Transforms)
    c. G.025X (for low volume and sporadic data)
    d. Standard (Not recommended on versions of Glue later the V1.0)

AWS Glue Data Catalog:
Data Catalog simplifies the management of metadata for your data assets.
1. Allows you to create a Metadata Store for your data assets
2. Active table definition including column names , Data types, and other attributes
3. Automatically infer the schema of the database.

AWS Glue : Glue Studio
AWS Glue Studio simplifies the development and management of ETL workflows by providing a visual interface, built-in transforms, and seamless integration with AWS Glue ETL for scalable data processing in the cloud.

1.A way to visually write an ETL job
2.For example, it allows you to drag and drop functions to build transformation logic
3.Enables job orchestration and monitoring
4.Allows you to create ETL jobs and pipelines, scheduling them to run at specified intervals or in response to triggers such as data arrival or events.

AWS Glue : DataBrew
AWS DataBrew is a visual data preparation tool that allows you to use programming languages or SQL to process your data

1.Allows for visual data preparations to explore and interact with your datasets
2.Provides a wide range of built-in data transformation functions to apply datasets

Glue Studio vs. Glue DataBrew
Studio:

a.Visual Tool to write ETL jobs
b.Single pane to monitor all jobs
c.Mainly focused on getting, transforming, and storing the data

DataBrew:

a.Visual Tool for data preparation
b.Data profiling
c.Mainly focused on utilizing the data to gain insights on trends in your data

AWS Glues Use cases
Allows you to complete ETL jobs
Data Cataloging
Unique view of data from different sources

Benefits of AWS Glue
Fully managed service
Allows for the integration of large amounts of data to multiple services
Allows you to consume process and buffer data in real time
Allows for real-time metrics and reporting across various services

AWS Glue: Event-Driven Triggers
Event-Driven
With event-driven triggers, you can configure AWS glue workflows to start automatically in response to events
Events are things like data uploads to S3, changes in Amazon DynamoDB tables, or messages in Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS) topics
These can also come from an EventBridge
